[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We can't just say, well,
it only took 20 nanoseconds
for this healing to take
place, because we don't in that
person's subjective world what
the process was that got him up
to that point of acceptance,
or what got them to the point
where they could surrender
themselves to a greater order.
And so what appears
to be a nanosecond
could be a person's
journey to acceptance.
When the soul emerges, when
a person begins to wake up,
they weigh.
They begin to weigh
what they know
and what's working
for them against what
is that inner urge
and that inner drive.
And for some people,
it's a clean cut.
They make the break.
They understand
what it is, and they
begin to gain knowledge
and apply that knowledge.
Other people have to have
their system fall apart.
They have to go through the
disruption of that ordered
and finalized complete state
of the personality that
keeps everything intact
and everything in order,
based on how the person's wired.
So the tragedy in
one sense is really
just the death of an old self.
And it allows then a birth.
And the birthing
process at times
can be difficult,
because it's painful.
And what's painful about
it more than anything else
is that we no longer are
producing the same thoughts
that make the same chemicals.
We're breaking the addiction
to all those agreements
chemically.
That is an uncomfortable
state for the human being,
because they can't connect
to any person, place, thing,
or event out in their world,
and because that that discomfort
gives them the sense of
no relation to anything.
That is borderline
nervous breakdown.
It's borderline insanity.
Because you look for some
evidence in your life
that you're doing
the right thing.
And everywhere you look
for evidence in your life
is with the people you've had
all those agreements with.
So you can't even turn
and talk to those people,
because they're going to ask you
to go back to the same person,
so that they can keep
that agreement intact.
If the person has the knowledge
to be able to understand that,
and they can ride their
way all the way through it,
they'll begin to understand
that a new self is emerging.
And those old patterns
will literally crumble.
They'll literally
disconnect in the brain.
And it'll give
them an opportunity
to give birth to a new self.
That new self will have a whole
new set of people in their life
equal to who they've become.
>> When a person says,
do I create my reality?
The answer is, but you
already are creating it.
Who you are is made up of the
reality that you are currently.
To change that
would be to change
one of those concepts of
people, because you became
expanded that you've brought
into your neurological makeup
an idea.
That new idea suddenly
augments present reality.
And because the idea
is now in your mind,
it's in your frontal
lobe, its reality forms.
And suddenly you go, wow, I
just had this great experience.
I had this idea, and then this
wonderful thing happened to me.
I mean, what was that?
The answer is you
created reality.
Well, what did I create it from?
A source from an idea.
Well, why don't I do
that all the time?
But you have.
The idea of who
you are with, where
you live, what you look
like, what you wear,
who you talk to today, what
you're going to do tomorrow;
you have all created this as
fundamentally your reality.
So everybody in your life
is an aspect of yourself.
And what you did is
you simply added to it.
You added a new
reality to that mix.
So we're so busy being it, it's
like the fish in the ocean.
Somebody gives the
idea to the fish
that it's a novel idea to
ask for a drink of water.
So the fish asked
for a drink of water.
Everybody starts
laughing, because the fish
is in the water.
So it's sort of like saying,
how do I create my reality?
Well, you are the reality.
You're already creating it.
We only see what we are
when we step out of it,
and we look back
at who we've been.
[MUSIC AND MACHINERY SOUNDS]
>> There is enormous potential
to change the kind of behaviors
and characteristic patterns
that we've fallen into.
In fact, if you've listened
and have remembered anything
that I've said, your
physiology is different
than it was before that.
That is something that Eric
Kandel, the recent winner
of the Nobel Prize in
Medicine and Science,
said very eloquently at a talk.
That basically memory
has been encoded.
Your genetic structure has l.
And while we previously would
talk about the nervous system
as this very rigid
thing that didn't
have much capacity for change,
we now know that on many levels
that isn't true.
And actually, there's
a tremendous amount
of plasticity, which basically
means ability to change,
within the nervous system.
>> And if you look at the
structure of the human brain
in detail, you see
that it's actually--
it's specifically designed,
it's carefully engineered
to experience the unified
field, to experience the unity
of life.
>> When people have a
mystical experience,
what usually happens--
how they describe,
is that they begin to lose the
usual sense of material reality
around them.
In fact, if they go
far enough and they
achieve a sense of absolute
unitary experience, then
all of the material world
as we typically know it,
basically goes away.
What we're talking about there
is an experience of just pure--
being pure awareness,
pure consciousness.
So it's not-- it's
not necessarily
tied to anything material, and
because those experiences have
been described in
extremely real terms,
meaning that when people have
that experience they perceive
it to represent a more
fundamental level of reality
than our everyday
material reality
that we normally live
in; it creates a very
big philosophical problem.
Because when we actually
try to evaluate what is real
and how we know what is
real, my colleagues and I
have ultimately come
to the conclusion
that the only way to
really make a determination
is based on how real it feels,
what the sense of it feels.
Everything ultimately is
reduced to that experience.
How real of an
experience does it feel?
How much does it feel
like absolute reality?
Well in that case, when we look
at the mystical experiences,
they really are associated
with an experience of much more
fundamental reality than what
our everyday reality is like.
In fact, even when
they're no longer having
that mystical
experience, they still
perceive that reality
to be the more real,
to represent the more truer
form, the more fundamental form
of reality.
And the material
world that we live in,
is kind of a more
secondary reality for them.
>> The reason why people
are attracted to psychic
experiences or mystical
experiences is because they
feel it has enormous meaning,
like more meaning than usual.
And the reason for
that is typically
a feeling of connectedness,
a merging of your ego
with something else.
And why that should
create this internal sense
that it's important is
not entirely clear to me.
But oftentimes a single
psychic experience
can be life-transforming.
>> Change is always interesting,
because it's like walking
across a stream.
You have a good idea
of what you want.
You say, there's life
on the other side.
I can predict everything
on this side of the river.
I can predict actions
of the people.
I can predict the comings and
goings of different events.
I know how everything's
going to be.
It's a routine enough experience
that I'm bored and I want more.
And so we venture
across the river.
And as we start
entering into the river,
we realize that it's cold, and
the water has a strong current,
and is dangerous.
And the moment that we stop
to analyze how we're feeling,
we lose sight of the other side.
And the moment that
happens, we rush
back to what's comfortable,
and what's familiar,
and what's common.
And then we can say when we
do that, we'll see that change
just didn't feel right.
Well that feeling
we were relying on
was a feeling based
on reaffirming
our old personality.
The person who has the
ability to hold a thought,
and to hold an ideal, and
to hold a vision in spite
of the feedback from their
body is executing the movement
to a greater reality.
>> Whenever our
boundaries are contracted,
we become identified
with a small cocoon,
we become unhappy.
So the whole idea
then is to shift,
to extend our boundaries.
And then whenever we have
expanded the boundaries,
we are in that extended bigger
self, non-ordinary state
of consciousness, which is
the source of our happiness.
>> When you start to realize
what your true nature is,
there is no question.
There is no answer anymore.
And there is just
sudden realization.
Now you come back
from the rabbit hole.
And you start to perform
in this world of illusion,
and wonder, and magic
with that understanding
that you are never going to
die, and you were never born.
>> Choice by consciousness,
out of these possible events,
the actual event of experience
comes in, and so for the first
time, science and
conscious free will.
Consciousness is
free, because there
is no mathematical
description of the subject.
Only objects can be
described mathematically,
and only to the extent that
there are possibilities.
The question still remains
paramount, who is the chooser?
>> Are all realities
existing simultaneously?
Is there a possibility that all
potentials exist side by side?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome to flat land, a
world of only two dimensions,
only forwards or
backwards, left and right.
In this world, there
is no up and no down.
>> I said to Ray, where's Dotty?
He said, well she's out in line.
[SCREECH]
[SCREAMS]
>> What the bleep is that thing?
>> In this world, the two
dimensional beings that live
here have no concept of
three dimensional objects.
These two dimensional
flat-landers
have no understanding of
cubes, spheres, tetrahedrons,
or yours truly.
From their 2D
perspective, my 3D finger
looks something like this.
[GASPS]
>> What the flat Earth is that?
>> Did you see that?
Run!
[SCREAMS]
>> Hello, little circle.
[SCREAM]
Ha, ha.
Fear of the unknown, or
should I say not yet known?
It's a puzzle.
If we see only what we
know, how does anyone ever
see anything new?
The unknown, how do we
ever get out of our box?
Hello, little circle.
Don't be afraid.
>> Who said that?
Where are you?
>> This is always the
tricky part to explain.
I am in another
dimension, another space.
I am above you.
[SCREAM]
>> (WHISPERING) No, never.
Never use that word.
>> What word?
>> The A word.
>> Above?
[SCREAM]
>> Oh, it's forbidden!
>> Well, what do
you think it means?
>> I don't know.
And I don't want to know.
You can be severely punished
if you use that word.
[GASP] Are you a ghost?
[CHUCKLES]
>> I hope not.
I just have a different
perspective than you do.
I can see things in
a way you can't yet.
>> Oh yeah?
Like what?
>> Well, OK.
You have a safe
hidden in your pantry.
And inside it, you have 12
coins, a will, and a passport.
[GASP]
>> How did know that?
What are you?
Are you a god?
>> Well, no more than you.
You see, since I am above you--
[SCREAM]
--in the third dimension,
I can see inside things
in your world.
>> Third dimension?
You are a crazy ghost.
There's only two.
Look!
>> So, if I were to touch
the inside of your stomach,
how would I do that?
>> Well, you'd have to
cut through my skin.
Otherwise it's impossible.
Well-- [GIGGLES] stop!
Stop!
[CHUCKLES]
>> Ready for more?
>> More what?
>> Dimensions.
>> Oh.
>> Directions.
>> No, yes.
But-- but there aren't any more?
What will happen to me?
What will I become?
>> You'd have to
become it to know.
>> OK.
>> Excellent.
[GASP]
>> Oh, I never knew.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[DIGITAL MUSIC]
>> When was the last time you
ever looked at you through
the eyes of mirrors that
you call your beloved,
your friends?
When was the last time you ever
saw your through the mirror
and understood you?
>> I am much more
than I think I am.
I can be much more
even than that.
I'm not alone.
>> Knowledge allows the brain
to begin to become wired,
and we will begin to see
what has always existed,
but because we live in those
routine automatic programs
we're unable to see because
we're processing mind from
the familiar.
To learn knowledge means
we're learning new things.
And to learn new
things means we're
gathering information and
creating the circuitry
now to begin to develop
the sensitivity,
to begin to see things
for the first time.
>> We are entangled.
If you want to call it
quantum entanglement, fine.
But we are entangled.
And there is no real
separation between us,
so that what we do to another,
we do to an aspect of ourself.
>> Why do we not see
the entanglement?
Because evolution has
pushed us to not see it.
And we get quite good
at not seeing it.
This sensory input
is designing and it's
constructing this image of the
world in which the things are
separate.
But we know through experiments,
we know through experience,
that they're separate.
But at some level, they're
not so separate after all.
>> We're finding non-locality
everywhere-- in our bodies,
in space, from stars.
In regions of the zero point
field, everything is connected.
And so we have this
involvement in everything.
We are our world.
There's no out there out there.
There's no place where we end
and everything else begins.
We're all connected.
>> You take this notion
of an entangled universe,
and you apply it to
human experience,
because human experience is
part of the universe as well.
And you say, well, let's assume
that experience is entangled.
Then how would it manifest?
And we can start
going through ways
in which it could manifest.
If there's a connection
with another mind,
we call it telepathy.
If there's a connection to some
other object somewhere else,
we'd call it clairvoyance.
If there's a connection that
happens that transcend time,
we call it precognition.
If there's a connection in which
my intention is expressed out
in the world some
way, we might call it
psychokinesis, or
distant healing,
or something of that sort.
So you can go through
a list of perhaps 12
kinds of psychic experience
that have gotten labels
over the years, like telepathy.
But this is really just
the tip of the iceberg.
>> I think entanglement
and collapse in one system,
inducing collapse another,
is exactly what happens
in para-psychological phenomena.
And it's also true that
time can go backwards.
So they don't even have
to be simultaneously.
One can occur before
or after the other.
And near-death experiences,
particularly when
patients report
leaving their body
and floating above
them, their bodies
watching themselves
being worked on
and then returning to their
body, could be due to the fact
that consciousness is
ultimately a process
in fundamental
space-time geometry.
And when the coherence
driving the system
stops due to the metabolic
insult to the brain,
the information is still
in fundamental space-time
geometry, which is everywhere.
So it would tend to
start to dissipate.
However due to
quantum entanglement,
would tend to stay
somewhat localized,
and float above, maybe go
out in the waiting room
and visit with relatives
which has been reported
in near-death experiences.
But then when the body
is resuscitated, revived,
and the metabolic drive
in the brain resumes,
the information returns
to its host, the brain.
>> We are all connected.
I mean, I think the most
fundamental thing is we're all
connected by an energy field.
We swim in a sea of
light, basically,
which is the zero point field.
And I say, first
of all, you have
to get away from the whole
idea of separateness.
Because separateness is the
biggest problem in the world
now.
>> Whatever way we observe the
world around us is what comes
back to us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> One then begins to see
others as a part of themselves.
One begins to see that it's best
just to love others, and not
judge them, that what you
do to build another actually
builds yourself.
You begin to see that
you're connected,
you're part of a large family.
>> Loving one's neighbor I think
is based upon the recognition
of neighbor as oneself.
Ultimately of course, when
consciousness is developed
and education is working, one
will perceive other as oneself,
because we are all one unity.
There is only one consciousness.
There's only one unified field.
>> Jesus' teaching love your
neighbor as yourself was
actually a teaching about
the higher frequencies
of the nature of reality.
In other words, he didn't
say love your neighbor,
because it's a good thing to do.
Be nice to your neighbor,
and God will reward you.
He was, I suppose, you
could say practicing
enlightened self-interest
at its best.
Because what he knew,
that with the intent
which we call the
observer in the quantum
world, the intent of the
observer towards another, what
you express towards another, is
what you create for yourself.
So if you express love, or
hate, or harm to another,
you're creating it.
And the prime beneficiary
in all creation is yourself.
So when he said
love your neighbor
and do good to those who
hate you and so forth,
he was actually paying tribute
to the role of the observer
in everything that we do.
>> Well, one of the consequences
of this entanglement issue is
that every thought is received
by every other person who can
think.
Our thoughts have
action, have intentions,
have consequences that
spread out into the world.
From a personal basis, my
thought is a drop in the ocean.
So probably what I think
doesn't matter a whole lot.
But if there are
a billion of me,
and we happen to be thinking
along the same lines,
it probably will be picked up
and influence other thinking
creatures.
So in a sense, if this
line of thinking plays out,
then one of the
consequences may be
that we need to be more
responsible for our thoughts.
>> We are all
creating the future.
We are all creating
what is outside of us.
None of us are innocent
in that regard.
If there's something
out there we don't like,
we can't really turn
our backs on it,
because we're co-creators,
somehow or other.
And we have to do
the right things
to try to get the future
that is best for all of us.
>> All our separate
consciousness,
wherever there is consciousness,
is merely consciousness
by virtue of the fact
that my consciousness,
your consciousness
are ultimately that.
Everything in the universe
is really nothing but that.
Planets, trees, people,
animals; we're all just
waves of vibration of this
underlying unified super string
field.
We are really
united at our core.
And ultimately the
understanding that's emerging
will be that there is only one
consciousness in this room,
and it is you, and it is me, and
it is each and every one of us.
We individualize
our consciousness
through the filter of
our nervous system.
But the consciousness itself,
our very inner subjectivity,
the self in the big
sense, that is universal.
And knowing that, knowing
it through experience,
is called enlightenment, and
has been called enlightenment
through the ages.
>> In the end, these were but
tools to bring imagination
into a quantum fury, a dream
that sets its sights above
the mundane and the mediocracy
of life that everyone can set
their sights therein.
Then we are no longer
hated and despised,
but we have done the one
most excellent virtue.
We have saved ourself
through simply applying
our most excellent
eternal ability,
and that is that we are God, and
that we call out of inertness.
We call out of the inertness.
The winds sprayed
particles of chaos.
And we freeze them for
a momentary reality,
in which all predecessors and
all successors agree upon,
and now we have
tangibility of mass.
But we have brought
it out of nothing.
And how could we
ever be nothing?
We could never be nothing.
It is only out of nothing
that we have are being.
But are being, we do have,
and we are ambitious gods.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[BIRDS CRYING]
>> To ask the great questions,
to begin to formulate
possibilities means that we have
to stop the normal way in which
we think.
When we asked the
great questions,
we're stopping a
moving locomotive,
we're stopping that process.
And now we're
beginning to speculate
possibilities, potentials.
The whole purpose in life
is to change an outcome,
to change something
about ourselves,
to modify our behavior
or modify our actions,
to have a new experience.
To have a new experience
means then we're
no longer in the typical routine
way in which we do things.
To ask the great
questions is just to say,
I've pretty much experienced
everything that I know,
now I'm interested in
knowing something else.
>> At the end of the day, the
summation of all of this is
does it enrich our life.
Does it give us a better
way to change our mind?
>> Hey, you're back.
>> I'm back.
>> So you never
answered my question.
>> What question?
>> How far down the rabbit
hole do you want to go?
>> I think we love rabbit holes
so much because we realize that
there is a greater
reality out there,
and that the reality is much
more akin to our dreams.
>> Rabbit holes are the best
thing since pop-top can.
>> To go down the rabbit
hole, and to get away from
the mundane is thrilling.
>> The rabbit hole and how
deep and how far we want to go,
is really how far, how much
do you want to discover about
your true nature.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> How far down the rabbit
hole do you want to go?
>> All the way.
[ROCKET SOUNDS]